# grpc_basic_dotnet

1.Create a blank solution (For example "GRPC_basic" solution)
2.Create a console app for client (For example "ClientApp")
.Remove default class
.Add a new class and add main method to it
3.Create a console app for server (For example "ServerApp")
.Remove default class
.Add a new class and add main method to it 4.
4.Right click on the main soltion("GRPC_basic") then properties
.Select Multiple Startup project
.Select both ServerApp and ClientApp. ServerApp should start first then client maintain the orientation
5.Build and run the "GRPC_basic" basic solution if both server and client solution app run then okay. You can run
seperatly to app no issue.
6.Add a new folder name "Protos" to "GRPC_basic" solution.
7.Now add a text file in that folder name it as "Greetings.proto"
8.Add 3 nuget package to both "ClientApp" and "ServerApp"
1.GRPC
2.GRPC.tools
3.Goolge.protbuf
9.Now click on the "ClientApp" soltion in vs. You can see the code of the solution. Add below code there
<ItemGroup>
<Protobuf Include="../*.proto" OutputDir="%(RelativePath)Protos/"/>
</ItemGroup>
then save the file and rebuild soltion. You will see that a "Protos" name folder is generated in your solution.
If there is no protos folder then there maybe some syntax error in the proto file you created "Greetings.proto" or you use
correct compile file.
In Protos folder there will be two files named "Greetings.cs" and "GreetingsGRPC.cs".
This two file is generated by Google.protbuf nuget package. For every proto Google.protobuf will generate two file.

10.Follow 8 & 9 for "ServerApp" also.
11.Now follow the code of server and clint app from the project.
